{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 LECTURE 7\par
GROUP PRESENTATIONS CONTINUES PHYSICALLY\par
\par
ONLINE CLASS: BASIC PC TROUBLESHOOTING AND ICT ACRONYMS\par
\par
PART A: PC TROUBLESHOOTING\par
\par
Troubleshooting\par
\par
Do you know what to do if your screen goes blank? What if you can't seem to close an application, or can't hear any sound from your speakers? Whenever you have a problem with your computer, don't panic! There are many basic troubleshooting techniques you can use to fix issues like this. In this lesson, we'll show you some simple things to try when troubleshooting, as well as how to solve common problems you may encounter.\par
General tips to keep in mind\par
\par
There are many different things that could cause a problem with your computer. No matter what's causing the issue, troubleshooting will always be a process of trial and error\f1\emdash in some cases, you may need to use several different approaches before you can find a solution; other problems may be easy to fix. We recommend starting by using the following tips.\par
\par
Write down your steps: Once you start troubleshooting, you may want to write down each step you take. This way, you'll be able to remember exactly what you've done and can avoid repeating the same mistakes. If you end up asking other people for help, it will be much easier if they know exactly what you've tried already.\par
Take notes about error messages: If your computer gives you an error message, be sure to write down as much information as possible. You may be able to use this information later to find out if other people are having the same error.\par
Always check the cables: If you're having trouble with a specific piece of computer hardware, such as your monitor or keyboard, an easy first step is to check all related cables to make sure they're properly connected.\par
Restart the computer: When all else fails, restarting the computer is a good thing to try. This can solve a lot of basic issues you may experience with your computer.\par
\par
Using the process of elimination\par
\par
If you're having an issue with your computer, you may be able to find out what's wrong using the process of elimination. This means you'll make a list of things that could be causing the problem and then test them out one by one to eliminate them. Once you've identified the source of your computer issue, it will be easier to find a solution.\par
Scenario:\par
\par
Let's say you're trying to print out invitations for a birthday party, but the printer won't print. You have some ideas about what could be causing this, so you go through them one by one to see if you can eliminate any possible causes.\par
\par
First, you check the printer to see that it's turned on and plugged in to the surge protector. It is, so that's not the issue. Next, you check to make sure the printer's ink cartridge still has ink and that there is paper loaded in the paper tray. Things look good in both cases, so you know the issue has nothing to do with ink or paper.\par
\par
Now you want to make sure the printer and computer are communicating correctly. If you recently downloaded an update to your operating system, it might interfere with the printer. But you know there haven't been any recent updates and the printer was working yesterday, so you'll have to look elsewhere.\par
\par
You check the printer's USB cord and find that it's not plugged in. You must have unplugged it accidentally when you plugged something else into the computer earlier. Once you plug in the USB cord, the printer starts working again. It looks like this printer issue is solved!\par
\par
This is just one example of an issue you might encounter while using a computer. In the rest of this lesson, we'll talk about other common computer problems and some ways to solve them.\par
Simple solutions to common problems\par
\par
Most of the time, problems can be fixed using simple troubleshooting techniques, like closing and reopening the program. It's important to try these simple solutions before resorting to more extreme measures. If the problem still isn't fixed, you can try other troubleshooting techniques.\par
Problem: Power button will not start computer\par
\par
Solution 1: If your computer does not start, begin by checking the power cord to confirm that it is plugged securely into the back of the computer case and the power outlet.\par
Solution 2: If it is plugged into an outlet, make sure it is a working outlet. To check your outlet, you can plug in another electrical device, such as a lamp.\par
Solution 3: If the computer is plugged in to a surge protector, verify that it is turned on. You may have to reset the surge protector by turning it off and then back on. You can also plug a lamp or other device into the surge protector to verify that it's working correctly.\par
resetting a surge protector\par
Solution 4: If you are using a laptop, the battery may not be charged. Plug the AC adapter into the wall, then try to turn on the laptop. If it still doesn't start up, you may need to wait a few minutes and try again.\par
\par
Problem: An application is running slowly\par
\par
Solution 1: Close and reopen the application.\par
Solution 2: Update the application. To do this, click the Help menu and look for an option to check for Updates. If you don't find this option, another idea is to run an online search for application updates.\par
Checking for updates\par
\par
Problem: An application is frozen\par
\par
Sometimes an application may become stuck, or frozen. When this happens, you won't be able to close the window or click any buttons within the application.\par
\par
Solution 1: Force quit the application. On a PC, you can press (and hold) Ctrl+Alt+Delete (the Control, Alt, and Delete keys) on your keyboard to open the Task Manager. On a Mac, press and hold Command+Option+Esc. You can then select the unresponsive application and click End task (or Force Quit on a Mac) to close it.\par
screenshot of Windows 8\par
Solution 2: Restart the computer. If you are unable to force quit an application, restarting your computer will close all open apps.\par
\par
Problem: All programs on the computer run slowly\par
\par
Solution 1: Run a virus scanner. You may have malware running in the background that is slowing things down.\par
Solution 2: Your computer may be running out of hard drive space. Try deleting any files or programs you don't need.\par
Solution 3: If you're using a PC, you can run Disk Defragmenter. To learn more about Disk Defragmenter, check out our lesson on Protecting Your Computer.\par
\par
Problem: The computer is frozen\par
\par
Sometimes your computer may become completely unresponsive, or frozen. When this happens, you won't be able to click anywhere on the screen, open or close applications, or access shut-down options.\par
\par
Solution 1 (Windows only): Restart Windows Explorer. To do this, press and hold Ctrl+Alt+Delete on your keyboard to open the Task Manager. Next, locate and select Windows Explorer from the Processes tab and click Restart. You may need to click More Details at the bottom of the window to see the Processes tab.\par
screenshot of Windows 8\par
Solution 2 (Mac only): Restart Finder. To do this, press and hold Command+Option+Esc on your keyboard to open the Force Quit Applications dialog box. Next, locate and select Finder, then click Relaunch.\par
screenshot of OS X\par
Solution 3: Press and hold the Power button. The Power button is usually located on the front or side of the computer, typically indicated by the power symbol. Press and hold the Power button for 5 to 10 seconds to force the computer to shut down.\par
Solution 4: If the computer still won't shut down, you can unplug the power cable from the electrical outlet. If you're using a laptop, you may be able to remove the battery to force the computer to turn off. Note: This solution should be your last resort after trying the other suggestions above.\par
\par
Problem: The mouse or keyboard has stopped working\par
\par
Solution 1: If you're using a wired mouse or keyboard, make sure it's correctly plugged into the computer.\par
Solution 2: If you're using a wireless mouse or keyboard, make sure it's turned on and that its batteries are charged.\par
\par
Problem: The sound isn't working\par
\par
Solution 1: Check the volume level. Click the audio button in the top-right or bottom-right corner of the screen to make sure the sound is turned on and that the volume is up.\par
Solution 2: Check the audio player controls. Many audio and video players will have their own separate audio controls. Make sure the sound is turned on and that the volume is turned up in the player.\par
screenshot of iTunes\par
Solution 3: Check the cables. Make sure external speakers are plugged in, turned on, and connected to the correct audio port or a USB port. If your computer has color-coded ports, the audio output port will usually be green.\par
Solution 4: Connect headphones to the computer to find out if you can hear sound through the headphones.\par
\par
Problem: The screen is blank\par
\par
Solution 1: The computer may be in Sleep mode. Click the mouse or press any key on the keyboard to wake it.\par
Solution 2: Make sure the monitor is plugged in and turned on.\par
Solution 3: Make sure the computer is plugged in and turned on.\par
Solution 4: If you're using a desktop, make sure the monitor cable is properly connected to the computer tower and the monitor.\par
\par
Solving more difficult problems\par
\par
If you still haven't found a solution to your problem, you may need to ask someone else for help. As an easy starting point, we'd recommend searching the Web. It's possible that other users have had similar problems, and solutions to these problems are often posted online. Also, if you have a friend or family member who knows a lot about computers, they may be able to help you.\par
google screenshot\par
\par
Keep in mind that most computer problems have simple solutions, although it may take some time to find them. For difficult problems, a more drastic solution may be required, like reformatting your hard drive or reinstalling your operating system. If you think you might need a solution like this, we recommend consulting a professional first. If you're not a computer expert, it's possible that attempting these solutions could make the situation worse.\par
\par
PART B: ICT ACRONYMS\par
\par
Computer and Internet Acronyms\par
Term Meaning Tech Factor\par
ACID Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability\par
ACL Access Control List\par
ADC Analog-to-Digital Converter\par
ADF Automatic Document Feeder\par
ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line\par
AFP Apple Filing Protocol\par
AGP Accelerated Graphics Port\par
AIFF Audio Interchange File Format\par
AIX Advanced Interactive Executive\par
ALU Arithmetic Logic Unit\par
ANR Application Not Responding\par
ANSI American National Standards Institute\par
API Application Program Interface\par
APM Actions Per Minute\par
APU Accelerated Processing Unit\par
ARP Address Resolution Protocol\par
ASCII American Standard Code for Information Interchange\par
ASO App Store Optimization\par
ASP Active Server Page or Application Service Provider\par
ATA Advanced Technology Attachment\par
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode\par
ATX Advanced Technology eXtended\par
AUP Acceptable Use Policy\par
AVR Audio/Video Receiver\par
Bash Bourne-Again Shell\par
BASIC Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code\par
Bcc Blind Carbon Copy\par
BIOS Basic Input/Output System\par
BLE Bluetooth Low Energy\par
Blob Binary Large Object\par
BMP Bitmap\par
BSOD Blue Screen of Death\par
CAD Computer-Aided Design\par
CAN Campus Area Network\par
Cc Carbon Copy\par
CCD Charged Coupled Device\par
CD Compact Disc\par
CD-R Compact Disc Recordable\par
CD-ROM Compact Disc Read-Only Memory\par
CD-RW Compact Disc Re-Writable\par
CDFS Compact Disc File System\par
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access\par
CDN Content Delivery Network\par
CGI Common Gateway Interface\par
CISC Complex Instruction Set Computing\par
CLOB Character Large Object\par
CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor\par
CMS Content Management System\par
CMYK Cyan Magenta Yellow Black\par
Control Unit CU\par
CORS Cross-Origin Resource Sharing\par
CPA Cost Per Action\par
CPC Cost Per Click\par
CPL Cost Per Lead\par
CPM Cost Per 1,000 Impressions\par
CPS Classroom Performance System\par
CPU Central Processing Unit\par
CRM Customer Relationship Management\par
CRT Cathode Ray Tube\par
CSS Cascading Style Sheet\par
CSV Comma-Separated Values\par
CTP Composite Theoretical Performance\par
CTR Click-Through Rate\par
CUDA Compute Unified Device Architecture\par
DAC Digital-to-Analog Converter\par
DAW Digital Audio Workstation\par
DBMS Database Management System\par
DCIM Digital Camera IMages\par
DDL Data Definition Language\par
DDR Double Data Rate\par
DDR2 Double Data Rate 2\par
DDR3 Double Data Rate Type 3\par
DDR4 Double Data Rate 4\par
DFS Distributed File System\par
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\par
DIMM Dual In-Line Memory Module\par
DKIM DomainKeys Identified Mail\par
DLC Downloadable Content\par
DLL Dynamic Link Library\par
DMA Direct Memory Access\par
DNS Domain Name System\par
DOS Disk Operating System\par
DPI Dots Per Inch\par
DRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory\par
DRM Digital Rights Management\par
DSL Digital Subscriber Line\par
DSLAM Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer\par
DTD Document Type Definition\par
DUT Device Under Test\par
DV Digital Video\par
DVD Digital Versatile Disc\par
DVD+R Digital Versatile Disc Recordable\par
DVD+RW Digital Versatile Disk Rewritable\par
DVD-R Digital Versatile Disc Recordable\par
DVD-RAM Digital Versatile Disc Random Access Memory\par
DVD-RW Digital Versatile Disk Rewritable\par
DVI Digital Video Interface\par
DVR Digital Video Recorder\par
ECC Error Correction Code\par
EDI Electronic Data Interchange\par
eGPU External Graphics Processing Unit\par
EIDE Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics\par
EOL End Of Life\par
EPS Encapsulated PostScript\par
eSATA External Serial Advanced Technology Attachment\par
EUP Enterprise Unified Process\par
EXIF Exchangeable Image File Format\par
FAQ Frequently Asked Questions\par
FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface\par
FIFO First In, First Out\par
FILO First In, Last Out\par
Fios Fiber Optic Service\par
FLOPS Floating Point Operations Per Second\par
FPGA Field-Programmable Gate Array\par
FPS Frames Per Second\par
FPU Floating Point Unit\par
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name\par
FSB Frontside Bus\par
FTP File Transfer Protocol\par
Gbps Gigabits Per Second\par
GIF Graphics Interchange Format\par
GIGO Garbage In, Garbage Out\par
GIS Geographic Information Systems\par
GPGPU General-Purpose computation on Graphics Processing Units\par
GPIO General Purpose Input/Output\par
GPS Global Positioning System\par
GPU Graphics Processing Unit\par
GUI Graphical User Interface\par
GUID Globally Unique Identifier\par
HAN Home Area Network\par
HDD Hard Disk Drive\par
HDMI High-Definition Multimedia Interface\par
HDR High Dynamic Range\par
HDTV High Definition Televsion\par
HDV High-Definition Video\par
HFS Hierarchical File System\par
HSF Heat Sink and Fan\par
HTML Hyper-Text Markup Language\par
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol\par
HTTPS HyperText Transport Protocol Secure\par
I/O Input/Output\par
ICANN Internet Corporation For Assigned Names and Numbers\par
ICCID Integrated Circuit Card Identifier\par
ICF Internet Connection Firewall\par
ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol\par
ICS Internet Connection Sharing\par
ICT Information and Communication Technologies\par
IDE Integrated Device Electronics or Integrated Development Environment\par
IDS Intrusion Detection System\par
IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers\par
IGP Integrated Graphics Processor\par
IIS Internet Information Services\par
IM Instant Message\par
IMAP Internet Message Access Protocol\par
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity\par
InterNIC Internet Network Information Center\par
IOPS Input/Output Operations Per Second\par
IP Internet Protocol\par
IPS Intrusion Prevention System\par
IPX Internetwork Packet Exchange\par
IRC Internet Relay Chat\par
IRQ Interrupt Request\par
ISA Industry Standard Architecture\par
iSCSI Internet Small Computer Systems Interface\par
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network\par
ISO International Organization for Standardization\par
ISP Internet Service Provider\par
ISR Interrupt Service Routine\par
IT Information Technology\par
ITIL Information Technology Infrastructure Library\par
IVR Interactive Voice Response\par
JDBC Java Database Connectivity\par
JFS Journaled File System\par
JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group\par
JRE Java Runtime Environment\par
JSF JavaServer Faces\par
JSON JavaScript Object Notation\par
JSP Java Server Page\par
JVM Java Virtual Machine\par
Kbps Kilobits Per Second\par
KDE K Desktop Environment\par
KVM Switch Keyboard, Video, and Mouse Switch\par
LAMP Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP\par
LAN Local Area Network\par
LCD Liquid Crystal Display\par
LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol\par
LED Light-Emitting Diode\par
LFN Long Filename\par
LIFO Last In, First Out\par
LPI Lines Per Inch\par
LTE Long Term Evolution\par
LUN Logical Unit Number\par
MAC Address Media Access Control Address\par
MAMP Mac OS X, Apache, MySQL, and PHP\par
MANET Mobile Ad Hoc Network\par
Mbps Megabits Per Second\par
MBR Master Boot Record\par
MCA Micro Channel Architecture\par
MDI Medium Dependent Interface\par
MIDI Musical Instrument Digital Interface\par
MIPS Million Instructions Per Second\par
MIS Management Information System\par
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service\par
MP3 MPEG-1 Audio Layer-3\par
MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group\par
MTU Maximum Transmission Unit\par
MVC Model-View-Controller\par
NAT Network Address Translation\par
NetBIOS Network Basic Input/Output System\par
NFC Near Field Communication\par
NIC Network Interface Card\par
NINO Nothing In, Nothing Out\par
NMS Network Management System\par
NNTP Network News Transfer Protocol\par
NOC Network Operations Center\par
NOS Network Operating System\par
NSP Network Service Provider\par
NTFS New Technology File System\par
NTP Network Time Protocol\par
NUI Natural User Interface\par
NVRAM Non-Volatile Random Access Memory\par
OASIS Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards\par
OCR Optical Character Recognition\par
ODBC Open Database Connectivity\par
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer\par
OLAP Online Analytical Processing\par
OLE Object Linking and Embedding\par
OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode\par
OOP Object-Oriented Programming\par
OSD On Screen Display\par
OSPF Open Shortest Path First\par
OTA Over-The-Air\par
OTT Over-the-top\par
P2P Peer To Peer\par
PC Personal Computer\par
PCB Printed Circuit Board\par
PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect\par
PCI-X Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended\par
PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association\par
PDA Personal Digital Assistant\par
PDF Portable Document Format\par
PDU Protocol Data Unit\par
PHP Hypertext Preprocessor\par
PIM Personal Information Manager\par
PMU Power Management Unit\par
PNG Portable Network Graphic\par
PoE Power over Ethernet\par
PON Passive Optical Network\par
POP3 Post Office Protocol\par
POST Power On Self Test\par
PPC Pay Per Click\par
PPGA Plastic Pin Grid Array\par
PPI Pixels Per Inch\par
PPL Pay Per Lead\par
PPM Pages Per Minute\par
PPP Point to Point Protocol\par
PPPoE Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet\par
PPS Pay Per Sale\par
PPTP Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol\par
PRAM Parameter Random Access Memory\par
PROM Programmable Read-Only Memory\par
PS/2 Personal System/2\par
PUM Potentially Unwanted Modification\par
PUP Potentially Unwanted Program\par
QBE Query By Example\par
RAID Redundant Array of Independent Disks\par
RAM Random Access Memory\par
RDBMS Relational Database Management System\par
RDF Resource Description Framework\par
RDRAM Rambus Dynamic Random Access Memory\par
RFID Radio-Frequency Identification\par
RGB Red Green Blue\par
RIP Routing Information Protocol\par
RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computing\par
ROM Read-Only Memory\par
RPC Remote Procedure Call\par
RPM Revenue Per 1,000 Impressions\par
RSS RDF Site Summary\par
RTE Runtime Environment\par
RTF Rich Text Format\par
RUP Rational Unified Process\par
SaaS Software as a Service\par
SAN Storage Area Network\par
Sass Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets\par
SATA Serial Advanced Technology Attachment\par
SCSI Small Computer System Interface\par
SD Secure Digital\par
SDK Software Development Kit\par
SDLC System Development Lifecycle\par
SDRAM Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory\par
SDS Software-Defined Storage\par
SDSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line\par
SEO Search Engine Optimization\par
SERP Search Engine Results Page\par
SIM Card Subscriber Identification Module Card\par
SIMM Single In-Line Memory Module\par
SIP Session Initiation Protocol\par
SKU Stock Keeping Unit\par
SLA Software License or Service Level Agreement\par
SLI Scalable Link Interface\par
SMART Self-Monitoring Analysis And Reporting Technology\par
SMB Server Message Block\par
SMM Social Media Marketing\par
SMS Short Message Service\par
SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol\par
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol\par
SO-DIMM Small Outline Dual In-Line Memory Module\par
SOA Service Oriented Architecture\par
SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol\par
SoC System On a Chip\par
SPX Sequenced Packet Exchange\par
SQL Structured Query Language\par
SRAM Static Random Access Memory\par
SRE Site Reliability Engineering\par
sRGB Standard Red Green Blue\par
SSD Solid State Drive\par
SSH Secure Shell\par
SSID Service Set Identifier\par
SSL Secure Sockets Layer\par
TCP Transmission Control Protocol\par
TCP/IP Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol\par
TFT Thin-Film Transistor\par
TIFF Tagged Image File Format\par
TLS Transport Layer Security\par
TTL Time To Live\par
TWAIN Toolkit Without An Informative Name\par
UAT User Acceptance Testing\par
UDDI Universal Description Discovery and Integration\par
UDP User Datagram Protocol\par
UEFI Unified Extensible Firmware Interface\par
UGC User Generated Content\par
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card\par
UML Unified Modeling Language\par
UNC Universal Naming Convention\par
UPnP Universal Plug and Play\par
UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply\par
URI Uniform Resource Identifier\par
URL Uniform Resource Locator\par
USB Universal Serial Bus\par
UTF Unicode Transformation Format\par
UUID Universally Unique Identifier\par
UWP Universal Windows Platform\par
VCI Virtual Channel Identifier\par
VDSL Very High Bit Rate Digital Subscriber Line\par
VDU Visual Display Unit\par
VFAT Virtual File Allocation Table\par
VGA Video Graphics Array\par
VIP Virtual IP Address\par
VLAN Virtual Local Area Network\par
VLB VESA Local Bus\par
VLE Virtual Learning Environment\par
VoIP Voice Over Internet Protocol\par
VPI Virtual Path Identifier\par
VPN Virtual Private Network\par
VPS Virtual Private Server\par
VRAM Video Random Access Memory\par
VRML Virtual Reality Modeling Language\par
W3C World Wide Web Consortium\par
WAIS Wide Area Information Server\par
WAMP Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP\par
WAN Wide Area Network\par
WDDM Windows Display Driver Model\par
WEP Wired Equivalent Privacy\par
WIMP Windows, Icons, Menus, Pointer\par
WINS Windows Internet Name Service\par
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network\par
WPA Wi-Fi Protected Access\par
WPA2 Wi-Fi Protected Access 2\par
WWW World Wide Web\par
WYSIWYG What You See Is What You Get\par
XAML Extensible Application Markup Language\par
XHTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language\par
XML Extensible Markup Language\par
XMP Extensible Metadata Platform\par
XSLT Extensible Style Sheet Language Transformation\par
Y2K Year 2000\par
ZIF Zero Insertion Force\f0\par
}
 